Created a decade ago, but still stunning

[Positive review]

I am a big fan of the animated movies coming from the Pixar
Studios. They are always looking for the newest technological
possibilities to use in their movies, creating movies that are
more than just worth a watch, even when they were made a decade
ago.The movie is about toys that come to life when their owner
is asleep or not in the same room. When the young boy's birthday
is coming up, all the toys are nervous. They don't want to be
ignored when the new one arrives. Woody the cowboy is their
"leader" because he's the most popular one of them all. He's the
only one that hasn't got to be afraid, but than a new favorite
arrives ... Buzz Lightyear. He hates him and tries everything
possible to get rid of him, but as the time passes by they learn
to appreciate each other...When you see Toy Story, you may think
that the different human like characters (Woody the cowboy for
instance) aren't always as perfect as we are used to see in
todays animated movies. Perhaps that's true, but if you keep in
mind that all this was done in 1995, when computers weren't yet
as strong and the technology for creating such movies was almost
unknown, than you can only have a lot of respect for what the
creators did. I loved the story and liked the animations a lot.
I give it an 8.5/10.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Plastic Fantastic.

[Positive review]

Y'know, I always suspected that my toys were coming to life when
I wasn't looking! In Andy's Room, his toys lead lives of noisy
desperation come every birthday and Christmas - no one wants to
be one-upped by a new addition to the toy box. Nominally led by
Cowboy Woody (there's a Brokeback joke in there just waiting to
happen), Mr. Potato Head, Rex the Dinosaur, Ham the piggybank,
Bo Peep, Slinky the dog and a smattering of other playthings go
about their toy business of playing checkers, hanging with the
hometoys and "plastic corrosion awareness meetings," until
Andy's birthday party, when they gather expectantly around a
transistor radio, listening to the reports of their toy soldier
troops "in the field" (downstairs watching Andy's gift-opening),
hoping that no gift will be exciting enough to cause Andy to
neglect *them.* There is. His name is Buzz Lightyear, Space
Ranger.Directed by Pixar mainstay John Lasseter, with the voice
talents of Tom Hanks (as Woody), Don Rickles, John Ratzenberger
(forever Cliff from *Cheers*), R. Lee Ermey, Annie Potts, Jim
Varney and Tim Allen (as Buzz), *Toy Story* is that *rara avis*
that succeeds on all levels Â– in its animation, storyline,
character development, its messages of friendship and self-
realization and, most importantly, its entertainment value. The
fact that this is a cartoon (or animated feature Â– just what DO
we call this new wave of computer-generated movies?) is
incidental. Which makes the slightly dodgy animation (of the
"real people") irrelevant - it gets the point across with or
without the technological finesse.The "Disney Movie" has become
synonymous with maudlin messages, redneck fundamentalism,
anachronistic family values, boneheaded parents, smart-mouthing
youngsters, too-hip-to-be-smart teens and insufferable pets.
Though Disney's tyrannical umbrella overarches this film's
production studio, Pixar Animation, *Toy Story* somehow avoided
all trace of Disney's craven hand, which is doubly surprising,
considering this is Pixar's first feature length film, after
years of experimentation. Right outa the gate and right outa the
field.Sure, there are "messages," but they are heartfelt, rather
than maudlin (Woody tells Buzz during Buzz's greatest depression
that it matters not what Buzz thinks of himself, what makes him
important is what his owner, Andy, thinks of him); there are
emotional segments, which are truly heartbreaking, rather than
cheesy (when Buzz's escape attempt lands him with a broken arm,
proving he is Not A Flying Toy, the lyric, "Clearly I will go
sailing no more," launches a thousand hankies); and the
portrayal of Andy's family was Pixar's triumphal achievement.
Boldly contravening Disney's *idÃ©e fixe* of the 1950's nuclear
family and Norman Rockwell fantasies, one of the many
incarnations of a modern-day family is presented: a single
mother with two kids, who are neither geniuses nor monsters,
just normal children; happy to visit Pizza Planet and
disappointed when favorite toys are lost.Buzz Â– who believes he
is a real life space ranger on a mission to save the universe -
become Andy's favorite toy over Woody. The funny thing is:
though Buzz believes he is real, he still adheres to toy
protocol of "playing inert" when humans are in the area. (Maybe
it's instinct?) When he mentions saving a toy from Sid, the
vicious boy next door, how does he propose to do it if he is to
adhere to the inert protocol? Buzz's ingenuousness regarding his
role as a toy infuriates Woody to the point of attempted toy-
assassination. Through a concatenation of accidents, both he and
Buzz become lost and must use teamwork, trust and ingenuity to
beat their path back to Andy, which finds them ensconced in
scorchingly funny vignettes (Buzz fastening himself in an over-
sized seatbelt; both falling in with green, three-eyed aliens;
Buzz hyperventilating as "Mrs. Nesbitt"). During a climactic
rocket ride, the callback line, "This is not flying - this is
falling with style," simply seals this movie's greatness.At
least I now have a plausible explanation as to why my toys
always got lost: after going about their toy business, they
would just go inert anywhere they happened to be, instead of
paying attention to their master's infallible toy filing
systemÂ….
----------------------------------------------------------------

Proof that Pixar not only cares about the quality of their
work,they care about our kids.

[Positive review]

Though I am not a big fan of computer animation,I have to give
the folks at Pixar credit.This brand of animation is nothing
short of brilliant.The attention to detail,such as eye and body
movement is quite remarkable.Computers allow them to make their
characters as close to human like as possible,something we have
never seen in traditional hand drawn animation,though the latter
will always be the closest to my heart.Combine this excellence
with a genuinely good story idea and a top notch voice cast and
the result is good family entertainment.It's obvious that the
people at Pixar are not only caring perfectionists when it comes
to film making,but they care about our kids,something rarely
seen today.Highly recommended for any home library.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Technically impressive with great script and sharp wit

[Positive review]

Andy's toys live a reasonable life of fun and peace, their only
worries are birthdays and Christmases, when new toys could
easily replace those already there.  One such birthday Andy's
top toy, Woody the cowboy, finds himself in direct competition
with Andy's new Buzz Lightyear doll.  When rivalries boil over
Woody tries to hide Buzz down the side of the bed but
accidentally pushes him out the window, the other tops expel
Woody, and he leaves with no choice but to find Buzz and return
him to the house.  But with only two days before Andy moves
house, time is of the essence.Given how often the same mix of
animation, wit, jokes and kids humour has been used since Toy
Story (Ice Age, Monsters Inc, Bugs Life) it is easy to forget
how refreshing it was when it first came out.  I have just
watched it again and it is dating a little in comparison to more
recent twists on the formula.  It seems each one has to be
sharper and have more references etc in the background.  However
it is still very funny and deserves praise for being the first
of a successful formula.The plot is simple but effective and
actually has genuine drama and excitement to it.  The main story
is fun but the degree of character development is what really
shores it up.  The conflict between Buzz and Woody is taken
deeper than this and, when confronted by the truth of his status
as a toy, Buzz's turmoil is very real as opposed to him being a
cartoon character and nothing more.  Despite the two strong
leads there is a real depth in the support cast.  They may not
actually have that many lines, but they have all the funniest
lines.  Most of the `adult' wit comes from the Potato Head,
dinosaur, the pig and slinky dog.  They are funny and are very
well used.  In fact the majority of this humour and plot will go
right over kids heads.Looking back on it, I do feel a cynical
edge on it in so much as this film must really have helped sales
of the toy companies in the film.  It's hard not to see the
marketing department standing behind this film rubbing their
hands.  However the actual product is so wonderfully fun that I
forgot this quickly.  The voice work is excellent and the
characters match the actors. Hanks is good as Woody and Allen
has a good B-movie type voice for Buzz. Varney, Ratzenberger,
Ermey (doing his usual), Rickles and others are all really good
in the support roles and, probably, come out as the favourite
characters for adults.Overall this is a classic film that will
appeal to adults as much as to kids (if not more).  A good plot
and a really sharp script make the already short running time
fly by.  The only downside is that your kids will want you to go
out and buy the damn things!
----------------------------------------------------------------

Witty Sweet Fun For All Ages. Forever Changed Animated Film ðŸ’¯

[Positive review]

This is as close to perfection as any animated film has come,
entertained parents on a equal plane with their children, and
set the bar to the top of the animation film industry. No film
has yet come close to Toy Story in legitimizing animation as a
film art on the level of movies with live actors. Great comedies
are hard to come by - Toy Story strikes gold on that basis
alone, but is so much more. One of the Top 100 Greatest Films of
All Time, and currently resides on my "Top 10 Greatest Comedy
Films (1960-Present)" list.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Excellent Viewing, Every Time!

[Positive review]

This is a very clever animated story that was a big hit, and
justifiably so. It had a terrific sequel and if a third film
came out, that would probably be a hit, too.When this came out,
computer technology just was beginning to strut its stuff. Man,
this looked awesome. Now, it's routine because animation, which
took a giant leap with this movie, has made a lot more giant
strides.The humor in here, however, is what made this so
popular. There are tons of funny lines, issued by characters
voiced by Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Jim Varney, Don Rickles, Wallace
Shawn and John Ratzenberger, among others. As good as Hanks is
as "Woody" and Allen as "Buzz Armstrong," I think the supporting
characters just about stole the show: Mr. Potato Head, Slinky,
Rex the dinosaur, etc.Multiple viewings don't diminish the
entertainment, either. There are so many things to catch,
audibly and visually, that you always seem to discover something
new. The colors in here are beautiful, too. This is a guaranteed
"winner" as is the sequel.
----------------------------------------------------------------

The Largest Part Of My Childhood Put On Screen.

[Positive review]

With the wonderful collaboration of Pixar and Disney, who as of
2013 have given us some of the most visually impressive and
wonderful movies ever made. "Toy Story" was the go to film of
many childhoods (Including my own), and brought CGI movies into
the mainstream with stunning promises & confidence.How things
came to be, Lucasfilm sold a portion of their effects company to
computer giant Apple (That inevitably became Pixar), who would
go on to strike a deal with Disney. Director John Lasseter had
lost his job to Disney for pitching the idea of this story, and
after the successful development stage he managed to gain back
the confidence of Disney, and alas the rest is history.I bring
this story up just to reflect how far we've matured in terms of
story telling & technology. The idea of adults giving kids
morals & entertainment through animation, wonderfully echoes
that of what Walt Disney set out to do so many decades ago. Toy
Story has aged extraordinarily well for the first CGI film ever
made. Held together mostly for its impeccable casting, I feel
ashamed now 20+ years old and much more experienced in movies to
say I still look at Tom Hanks & Tim Allen, and almost
immediately think "Toy Story". As well as the stellar supporting
cast, its visuals are fantastic and the music is timeless.
Writers include a young Joss Whedon, and with a rotten
antagonist by the name of Sid, makes this movie just as
entertaining now as it was then.Final Verdict: It's hard to find
any flaw with such a beloved movie, especially the one now most
adults will first show their kids. It has everything to move and
touch you deeply, and to believe a bunch of 0's and 1's flying
around in digital space can do that, "Toy Story" is that proof.
10/10.
----------------------------------------------------------------

"I can safely say that I have not enjoyed animated films quite
so much over the years as I have enjoyed Pixar films."

[Positive review]

Toy Story â€“ 5/5 starsChildren play with toys. It is a known
fact. At one time or another, we all played with toys, whether
they were action figures, dolls, little green soldiers, etcÂ… But
what if toys were real? What if they could talk?Pixar and Disney
serve us this theory in what was the first full-length computer-
animated film ever, 'Toy Story,' chronicling the events in the
life of a cowboy doll, Woody (voiced by Tom Hanks).Woody is the
favorite toy of his owner, a small child named Andy. Andy brings
Woody everywhere, and cherishes him, as we see in the beginning
of the film. However, this all changes on Andy's birthday when
Andy gets a new toy: a Buzz Lightyear doll (voiced by Tim
Allen). Woody is suddenly forgotten, left with the rest of his
friends: Mr. Potato Head (Don Rickles), Rex (Wallace Shawn),
Slinky Dog (Jim Varney, better known as Ernest) and Ham (see if
you can guess the voice of this one? I'll give you a hint:
'Cheers'). But after Buzz accidentally gets knocked out an
upstairs window, Woody is the prime suspect. Now, after Woody
and Buzz end up next door, in toy killer Sid's house, Woody must
prove his innocence by getting both Buzz and him back to Andy's
house safely.'Toy Story' builds on an element we all shrug off
carelessly and thoughtlessly. Much like they did last year with
monsters under the bed, Pixar took the theory of live toys to a
new level in 'Toy Story,' filling our minds with endless
possibilities.What Pixar does is a strange thing. It doesn't
just try to expand our mind, but also out world. I respect and
enjoy that. In 'Monsters, Inc.,' Pixar managed to preach to us
'What if monsters under the bed are real, and what if they have
a world much like ours, and have feelings like humans,' while
never forgetting the equally important formula of humor. Much is
the same with their earlier film 'Toy Story.' What if those
wooden and plastic toys we all played with as kids are real?
What if they have feelings, emotions, voices, and human
qualities? An interesting idea by itself, but when mixed with a
wicked sense of humor and reality, you've got yourself one of
the best films ever.Tom Hanks is perfect as Woody. Pixar must
have modeled the doll's expressions and movements after Hanks,
because after a while, I feel like I AM watching Hanks on
screen, and NOT a computer-generated image. When you get to the
point of not being able to tell animation from reality, you know
that the voices are good.The same goes for Tim Allen, though the
body gestures were most likely not modeled after Allen's
physical expressions (Buzz is a short, pot-bellied toy).The rest
of the cast is excellent, all very believable and entertaining.
You begin to love each character for their distinguishing
traits, and that is always refreshing.I can safely say that I
have not enjoyed animated films quite so much over the years as
I have enjoyed Pixar films. The only film they made that I named
forgettable was 'A Bug's Life,' which was in and of it not
horrible, but lacking the sense of humor the other Pixar films
have and had.Pixar makes very refreshing films. In an era of
cheap, made-for-video Disney sequels, rip-off cartoons and
television babysitters (i.e. 'The Jungle Book 2), Pixar holds
true to the values that made Disney films so entertaining back
in the 30's-60's: Respect for the audience's intelligence,
humor, provocative ideas to base the film upon, and respect for
the audience (not the exact same thing as the first element),
all of which are forgotten in this day and age of money-makers.
I respect Pixar very much, and after hearing how little Disney
does in helping with their films, I feel that Disney is just
trying to cash in on their ideas by having their name branded on
the posters for Pixar films. Shame on you, Disney. Proof that
Disney has no respect for audiences is the fact that they will
not let another sequel be made â€“ something that fans like me
would rather have than something like 'Finding Nemo.''Toy Story'
1 & 2 are both on my 'favorite films' list. It may sound stupid,
but if I made up a top 250 list like IMDb.com, both of those
films would be on there; so would 'Monsters Inc.' After an
unpromising trailer for Pixar's upcoming film 'Finding Nemo,' I
think that after their licensing deal with Disney is disputed
(they have to cough up five more ORIGINAL films â€“ not sequels â€“
by 2005), they should definitely try to make a 'Toy Story 3.'
I'll be first in line for it, anyway.
----------------------------------------------------------------

One of the Best Animated Films Ever!

[Positive review]

Toy Story is a sheer delight to view on the screen.  The
characters are well done, the plot is exceptional, and the best
thing of all, the film is entirely produced on the computer.
The animation is extraordinary in it's ability to bring such
great entertainment to the screen.  The film also teaches some
good lessons for the kids like friendship (mainly between Woody
and Buzz Light-year).  Spectacular entertainment all around and
one of the best films Disney has come with.
----------------------------------------------------------------

my Personal Favorite of Pixar's Work

[Positive review]

I remember seeing this film at the ripe age of seven, and I was
totally entranced by it. What kid would not have been attracted
to that sweet of a premise? Released way back in 1999, it was
totally different from the usual hand drawn animation, and yet
still as vibrant, if not more so. Even now as an 18 year old
dude I find it so amazing. Attention to detail has always been
Lasseter's strong suit, among many I might add. But the greatest
thing about this film was the life evoked into its unique and
untouchable characters.With the voice talents of Tim Allen, Tom
Hanks, as well as the hilarious Don Rickles, and the late Jim
Varney, the voice acting was perfect and the dialogue was
surprisingly intelligent throughout. What could be perceived
more or less as a simple story is told with heart and humor, one
that hasn't aged a bit since that first viewing. I still own my
original VHS copy in fact, but perhaps it's time I buy it on
Blu-ray or DVD.
----------------------------------------------------------------

